Recipe
Easy French Crêpes

This Basic French Crêpes Recipe makes the lightest and softest Crêpes ever. Super easy to make, this delicious classic French recipe can be served for breakfast, tea time or as a dessert with your favourite filling!
Servings: 12 large crepes

Prep Time : 15 minutes 
Cook Time : 45 minutes 
Resting Time : 1 hour 
Total Time : 2 hours 

Ingredients
    30 gr (2 tablespoons) Unsalted Butter
    500 ml (2 cups) Full Cream / Whole Milk
    3 large Eggs
    250 gr (1 2/3 cup) Plain / All Purpose Flour
    15 gr (1 tablespoon) Caster Sugar, (discard to make savoury crepes)
    1/3 teaspoon Fine Table Salt

Instructions
Crêpes Batter

    Place the Butter and Milk in a heat-proof jug and heat up in the microwave until the butter has melted. Set aside to cool down. Whisk the Eggs into a small bowl and set aside.
    Sift together the Flour, Salt and Sugar into a large mixing bowl. Mix to combine then make a well in the centre (see note 1).
    Pour about 2/3 of the melted butter and milk into the well. Whisk to combine - the mixture will be rather stiff, that's normal.
    Add the whisked Eggs and mix well, then add the remaining Butter and Milk. Vigorously whisk to break any lumps until you get a very smooth, liquid batter (see note 2).
    Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place in the fridge to rest for at least one hour - preferably overnight (see note 3).

Cooking the Crepes in a Crêpe Pan

    Heat up your crepe pan on medium heat and very lightly grease it with a little bit of butter.
    Using a ladle, pick up some of the batter and pour it in the centre of the warm pan. With the crepe spreader, move the batter around in a circular movement to get a thin, round shaped crepe. 
    Leave the crepe to cook for a couple of minutes (see note 4). Once the edges start to lift slightly and appear the very slightly crisp up, use a wooden spatula to lift it up and flip it. Leave the crepe to cook on the other side for about a minute, or until it is very lightly golden.
    Repeat until all of the batter has been cooked.

Cooking the Crepes in a Non-Stick Pan or Skillet

    Heat up the pan on medium heat and very lightly grease it with a little bit of butter (optional with a non-stick pan).
    Pick up some batter with a ladle. Hold your pan on an angle with one side tilted slightly down and pour the batter on the highest side of the pan. Spread the batter around by moving the pan (or your wrist) in a circular motion, making the batter go around the pan until you get a thin layer. 
    Leave the crepe to cook for a couple of minutes (see note 4). Once the edges start to lift slightly and appear the very slightly crisp up, use a wooden or silicone spatula to lift it up and flip it. Cook for another minute or until lightly golden.
    Repeat until all of the batter has been cooked.


Notes

    To make a well, simply push the centre of the dry ingredients towards the sides of the bowl using a spoon or spatula.
    If you still have lumps at this stage, you can use an immersion blender to smooth out the crepe batter.
    It is important to let the mixture rest as it will allow for the flour to hydrate properly and develop more flavours. 
    The exact time will depend on the thickness of the crepe and how hot the stove is. A key element of cooking crepe is to continuously adjust the temperature of the stove as required. The pan will get hotter has you cook the crepes so make sure to decrease the temperature when required, then increase it again if needed.

Nutrition (per serving)
Calories: 140kcal | Carbohydrates: 19g | Protein: 5g | Fat: 5g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Cholesterol: 50mg | Sodium: 37mg | Potassium: 92mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 3g | Vitamin A: 189IU | Calcium: 56mg | Iron: 1mg

More Quick & Easy Breakfast Recipes

    French toast baked in a white oval dish seen from above, placed on a rectangular cutting board and topped with fresh berries.
    Croissant French Toast Bake
    Close up on the quiche seen from above with 3 slices cut out.
    Leek Quiche with Gruyère
    A hand picking up one slice from a cutting board
    Easy Puff Pastry Apple Tart
    Close up on a roll over a small white plate surrounded by coffee beans
    Coffee Cinnamon Rolls

